docs: add release notes for 1.24 (#23707)
backstage/backstage: docs/releases/v1.24.0.md

---
id: v1.24.0
title: v1.24.0
description: Backstage Release v1.24.0
---

These are the release notes for the v1.24.0 release of [Backstage](https://backstage.io/).

A huge thanks to the whole team of maintainers and contributors as well as the amazing Backstage Community for the hard work in getting this release developed and done.

## Highlights

### BREAKING: Auth improvements

This release is a big milestone for the authentication system of Backstage and includes a large collection of new APIs and services. The full proposal can be found in [BEP-0003](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/blob/master/beps/0003-auth-architecture-evolution/README.md), including the motivation for this change. The main highlight of these changes is that we’re adding security by default to Backstage, meaning that you will no longer be forced to protect your Backstage instance from unauthorized access. It also brings several other improvements, such as slimmer user tokens and better handling of user credentials.

> The majority of these improvements only apply to the new backend system, but the new service interfaces have backwards compatibility layers that allows them to be used in the old backend system too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The majority of these improvements only apply to the new backend system, but the new service interfaces have backwards compatibility layers that allow them to be used in the old backend system too.
```

> This is the first phase of the roll out of these changes, and includes all of the breaking changes that we are expecting. The new service interfaces introduced in this release set us up for the ability to add further improvements to the system without the need for additional breaking changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the first phase of the rollout of these changes, and includes all breaking changes that we are expecting. The new service interfaces introduced in this release set us up for the ability to add further improvements to the system without the need for additional breaking changes.
```
